# BLUEPRINT Command Line Interface

The BLUEPRINT Command Line Interface (CLI) can be used to initiate a run of BLUEPRINT
from the terminal. The run requires four input files, which it uses to build a
configurable reactor class object. Desired output files are then saved to a specified
directory. The command for the CLI is `blueprint` followed by the required inputs and
any options for your run.

    $ blueprint [INPUTS] [OPTIONS]

> **note**
>
> This file contains example usage of the BLUEPRINT CLI. For the full documentation
> please build the docs using:
>
>     $ sphinx-build documentation/source documentation/build
> The CLI documentation can then be found at: `documentation/build/blueprint_cli.html`

## Checking the BLUEPRINT CLI is activated

To test if the CLI is installed correctly, first try running:

    $ blueprint --help

This will print the help text for the function. If the command is not found, you may need
to activate it by running:

     $ pip install --editable .

## Running BLUEPRINT from the example files

Example input files have been provided for testing the BLUEPRINT CLI. Starting from
your BLUEPRINT root directory (e.g. `~/code/BLUEPRINT`) they are stored in
`examples/cli/indir`

> **note**
>
> These files can be rebuilt if needed by running:
>
>     $ python examples/cli/rebuild_example_indir.py

To test the CLI with a simple BLUEPRINT run, try running the following command from your
BLUEPRINT directory:

    $ blueprint -i examples/cli/indir -ri EU-DEMO -o examples/cli/outdir -ro TEST-REACTOR

To follow the BLUEPRINT `stdout` while the build is running, you can type the following
into a second terminal instance:

    $ tail -f examples/cli/outdir/reactors/TEST-REACTOR/TEST-REACTOR_output.txt

## Generating CAD from the CLI.

Note by checking `examples/cli/outdir` after the run that CAD is not generated by
default.

To generate a CAD model use the `--cad` flag:

    $ blueprint -i examples/cli/indir -ri EU-DEMO -o examples/cli/outdir -ro TEST-REACTOR -m default --cad


## Generating usable JSON files from existing reactor objects.

To generate JSON files of the format used by the CLI (i.e. by the ConfigurableReactor class), simply run the class function `config_to_json()`.
For example, if you have a Reactor Object `R` and you want to generate `template`,
`config`, `build_config` and `build_template` JSON files, you would run:

    >>> R.config_to_json("path/to/files")
